Updated quickstart for v5 (#649)
clerk/clerk-docs: docs/quickstarts/nextjs.mdx

  </Tab>
</Tabs>

### Add Middleware to your app

> Middleware will allow you to access user auth state on any route or page in your application. `clerkMiddleware()` also provides you with the ability to protect routes, but by default it does not protect any routes.

Reviewer: Thoughts on this rewording?
```suggestion
Middleware grants you access to user authentication state throughout your application, on any route or page. While `clerkMiddleware()` offers the capability to protect routes, it does not enforce protection by default.
```

Create a middleware.ts file. If your application uses the src/ directory, your middleware.ts file should be placed inside the src/ folder. If you are not using a src/ directory, place the middleware.ts file in your root directory alongside .env.local.

Copy and paste the following code into your middleware.ts. 

```tsx filename="middleware.ts"
import { clerkMiddleware } from "@clerk/nextjs/server";

export default clerkMiddleware()

export const config = {
  matcher: ['/((?!.+\\.[\\w]+$|_next).*)', '/', '/(api|trpc)(.*)'],
};
```

### Use Clerk components to protect your content

> Clerk offers a set of [prebuilt components](/docs/components/overview) that can gate access to content based on whether a user is signed in and has the correct permissions. You can use Clerk's [`<SignedIn>`](/docs/components/control/signed-in) and [`<SignedOut>`](/docs/components/control/signed-out) components to restrict access to content and even whole pages. The `<SignedIn>` component requires the user be signed in to view the content inside the tags. The `<SignedOut>` components requires the user to be signed out.

Reviewer: Thoughts on restructuring? 
```suggestion
Clerk provides prebuilt components that control content access based on user authentication and permissions. These components can be used to restrict access to specific content or entire pages.

To manage content visibility for signed-in users, use the `<SignedIn>` component:
- Enclose content within the `<SignedIn>` tags to make it viewable only by users who are currently signed in.
- Content outside of these tags remains accessible to both signed-in and signed-out users.

To manage content visibility for signed-out users, use the `<SignedOut>` component:
- Enclose content within the `<SignedOut>` tags to make it visible only to users who are currently not signed in.
- Content outside of these tags is only accessible to signed-in users.

For more information on these components, refer to the following documentation:
- Overview of Clerk's Prebuilt Components: /docs/components/overview
- Control Access with `<SignedIn>`: /docs/components/control/signed-in
- Control Access with `<SignedOut>`: /docs/components/control/signed-out

```

Reviewer: Could use **bold** in a few places but wasnt as sure about that.

Reviewer 2: I like it, but in my opinion, we can omit the last section "For more information on these components" and simply link their first instances. So, where you have "To manage content visibility for signed-in users, use the `<SignedIn>` component" we can put the reference link there.

<CodeBlockTabs type="router" options={["App Router", "Pages Router"]}>
```tsx filename="app/page.tsx" {1,6-11}
import { SignedIn, SignedOut } from "@clerk/nextjs";

export default function Home() {
  return (

>     <div className="h-screen">

Reviewer: 🤨 I am confused by this change

>     <div className="h-screen">

Reviewer: Why change it to a fragment?

>     <div className="h-screen">

Author: This was **added** back into the repo (and thus should be in the guide since they should match line for line) by Lennart, since that's something from the Next app and its CSS.

>     <div className="h-screen">

Reviewer 3: The other example uses a fragment, and there's no reason to have an empty div, especially not one with a random class, so I figured a fragment is best for consistency and semantics

>     <div className="h-screen">

Author: Its not a empty div. I thought we were a avoiding the classes too, but they got added back in. I'm going to change the Pages to use <div>s for now, so we are aligned there and can ship this. We can revisit this shortly when we don't have the time crunch, if you're good with that @jescalan?

>     <div className="h-screen">

Reviewer 3: That's fine. I prefer a fragment to an unstyled div, since it reduces unnecessary wrappers in the output but this is not a strong enough to spend any more time on this, so if you prefer divs, for sure ship it 🚀

      <SignedOut>
        <p>This content is public. Only signed out users can see this.</p>
      </SignedOut>
      <SignedIn>
        <p>This content is private. Only signed in users can see this.</p>
      </SignedIn>
    </div>
  )
}
```

```tsx filename="pages/index.tsx" {1,6-11}
import { SignedIn, SignedOut } from "@clerk/nextjs";

export default function Home() {
  return (
    <>
      <SignedOut>
        <p>This content is public. Only signed out users can see this.</p>
      </SignedOut>
      <SignedIn>
        <p>This content is private. Only signed in users can see this.</p>
      </SignedIn>
    </>
  );
}
``` 
</CodeBlockTabs>

Try accessing your app now by visiting [`http://localhost:3000`](http://localhost:3000) to see what signed out users will see. Next you will add a button so you can sign in.

### Embed the `<UserButton />` and `<SignInButton />`

> Clerk offers a set of [prebuilt components](/docs/components/overview) to add functionality to your app with minimal effort. The [`<UserButton />`](/docs/components/user/user-button) allows users to manage their account information and log out, completing the full authentication circle. The [`<SignInButton />`(/docs/components/unstyled/sign-in-button)] is an unstyled component designed to wrap about your button. It can also act as a basic button on its own.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Clerk offers a set of [prebuilt components](/docs/components/overview) to add functionality to your app with minimal effort. The [`<UserButton />`](/docs/components/user/user-button) allows users to manage their account information and log out, completing the full authentication circle. The [`<SignInButton />`(/docs/components/unstyled/sign-in-button)] is an unstyled component designed to wrap around your own custom button. It can also act as a basic button on its own.

```

> Add the `<UserButton />` and `<SignInButton />` components. First, add `import { UserButton, SignedInButton } from "@clerk/nextjs";` to the top of your file. Then, add `<UserButton afterSignOutUrl="/"/>` inside of the `<SignedIn />` components. The `afterSignOutUrl` prop lets you customize what page the user will be redirected to after sign out. Lastly, add `<SignInButton />` comoponent inside of the `<SignedOut /> components`

Reviewer: Maybe this can be restructured & simplified a bit, I haven't thought of a good way myself yet.

> Add the `<UserButton />` and `<SignInButton />` components. First, add `import { UserButton, SignedInButton } from "@clerk/nextjs";` to the top of your file. Then, add `<UserButton afterSignOutUrl="/"/>` inside of the `<SignedIn />` components. The `afterSignOutUrl` prop lets you customize what page the user will be redirected to after sign out. Lastly, add `<SignInButton />` comoponent inside of the `<SignedOut /> components`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To add the `<UserButton />` and `<SignInButton />` components, first add `import { UserButton, SignedInButton } from "@clerk/nextjs";` to the top of your file. Then, add `<UserButton afterSignOutUrl="/"/>` inside of the `<SignedIn />` components. The `afterSignOutUrl` prop lets you customize what page the user will be redirected to after sign out. Finally, add `<SignInButton />` component inside of the `<SignedOut /> components`

```

  </Tab>
</Tabs>

### Add Middleware to your app

Middleware grants you access to user authentication state throughout your application, on any route or page. While `clerkMiddleware()` offers the capability to protect routes, it does not enforce protection by default.

To get started, create a `middleware.ts` file. If your application uses the `src/` directory, your `middleware.ts` file should be placed inside the `src/` folder. If you are not using a `src/` directory, place the `middleware.ts` file in your root directory alongside `.env.local`.

> Then, copy and paste the following code into your `middleware.ts`. 

Author: The rewrite of the guide was to remove too much complexity. I linked to the the clerkMiddleware and Route Protection to provide all the info, while keeping this lean and straight forward.

<CodeBlockTabs type="router" options={["App Router", "Pages Router"]}>
```tsx filename="app/page.tsx" {1,6-11}
import { SignedIn, SignedOut } from "@clerk/nextjs";

export default function Home() {
  return (
    <div className="h-screen">
      <SignedOut>
        <p>This content is public. Only signed out users can see this.</p>
      </SignedOut>
      <SignedIn>
        <p>This content is private. Only signed in users can see this.</p>
      </SignedIn>
    </div>
  )
}
```

```tsx filename="pages/index.tsx" {1,6-11}
import { SignedIn, SignedOut } from "@clerk/nextjs";

export default function Home() {
  return (
    <>
      <SignedOut>
        <p>This content is public. Only signed out users can see this.</p>
      </SignedOut>
      <SignedIn>
        <p>This content is private. Only signed in users can see this.</p>
      </SignedIn>
    </>
  );
}
``` 
</CodeBlockTabs>

Try accessing your app now by visiting [`http://localhost:3000`](http://localhost:3000) to see what signed out users will see. Next you will add a button so you can sign in and see the content within the `<SignedIn />` component.

> ### Embed the `<UserButton />` and `<SignInButton />`
> 
> Clerk offers a set of [prebuilt components](/docs/components/overview) to add functionality to your app with minimal effort. The [`<UserButton />`](/docs/components/user/user-button) allows users to manage their account information and log out, completing the full authentication circle. The [`<SignInButton />`(/docs/components/unstyled/sign-in-button)] is an unstyled component designed to wrap around your own custom button. It can also act as a basic button on its own.
> 
> 
> To add the `<UserButton />` and `<SignInButton />` components, first add `import { UserButton, SignedInButton } from "@clerk/nextjs";` to the top of your file. Then, add `<UserButton afterSignOutUrl="/"/>` inside of the `<SignedIn />` components. The `afterSignOutUrl` prop lets you customize what page the user will be redirected to after sign out. Finally, add `<SignInButton />` component inside of the `<SignedOut /> components`
> 

Reviewer 2: "Clerk offers a set of prebuilt components" in every section that mentions a component is quite repetitive. We can omit this.

Also, we can 
1. reorganize the information in the order they are presented in order to improve flow and clarity (in the code example, the `<SignInButton />` comes first, and then the addition of the `<UserButton />`.
2. reword how we are explaining the code example. we don't need to tell them step by step what they need to do programmatically; they can see this in the code example. instead, we can give an *explanation* of what is being added, and *why* those additions are being made.

```suggestion
### Embed the `SignInButton />` and `<UserButton />`

The [`<SignInButton />`](/docs/components/unstyled/sign-in-button)] is an unstyled component designed to wrap around your own custom button. It can also act as a basic button on its own. The [`<UserButton />`](/docs/components/user/user-button) allows users to manage their account information and sign out, completing the full authentication circle.

In the following example, the `<SignInButton />` is added to the `<SignedOut />` component to allow signed-out users to sign in. The `<UserButton />` is added to the `<SignedIn />` component to allow signed-in users to manage their account, add an account, or sign out. 
```

Author: "reword how we are explaining the code example. we don't need to tell them step by step what they need to do programmatically; they can see this in the code example. instead, we can give an explanation of what is being added, and why those additions are being made."

The changes here follow the precedent set in the Next QS rewrite and in the React QS rewrite. I think shipping this version works short term and if this is the preferred change it can be added later.

<CodeBlockTabs type="router" options={["App Router", "Pages Router"]}>
```tsx filename="app/page.tsx" {1,7,11}
import { SignInButton, SignedIn, SignedOut, UserButton } from "@clerk/nextjs";

export default function Home() {
  return (
    <div className="h-screen">
      <SignedOut>
        <SignInButton />
        <p>This content is public. Only signed out users can see this.</p>
      </SignedOut>
      <SignedIn>
        <UserButton />
        <p>This content is private. Only signed in users can see this.</p>
      </SignedIn>
    </div>
  )
}
```

```tsx filename="pages/index.tsx" {1,7,11}
import { SignInButton, SignedIn, SignedOut, UserButton } from "@clerk/nextjs";

export default function Home() {
  return (
    <>
      <SignedOut>
        <SignInButton />
        <p>This content is public. Only signed out users can see this.</p>
      </SignedOut>
      <SignedIn>
        <UserButton />
        <p>This content is private. Only signed in users can see this.</p>
      </SignedIn>
    </>
  );
}
```
</CodeBlockTabs>

> Visit [http://localhost:3000[(http://localhost:3000)] and try signing in to see the protected content and signing out to see the protected and unprotected content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Visit [http://localhost:3000[(http://localhost:3000)] and try using the `<SignInButton />` to sign in and see the protected content. Once signed in, you can use the `<UserButton />` to sign out and see the unprotected content again.

```

Clerk provides prebuilt components that control content access based on user authentication and permissions. These components can be used to restrict access to specific content or entire pages.
To manage content visibility for signed-in users, use the `<SignedIn>` component:
- Enclose content within the `<SignedIn>` tags to make it viewable only by users who are currently signed in.
- Content outside of these tags remains accessible to both signed-in and signed-out users.
To manage content visibility for signed-out users, use the `<SignedOut>` component:
- Enclose content within the `<SignedOut>` tags to make it visible only to users who are currently not signed in.
- Content outside of these tags is only accessible to signed-in users.
For more information on these components, refer to the following documentation:
- Overview of Clerk's Prebuilt Components: /docs/components/overview
- Control Access with `<SignedIn>`: /docs/components/control/signed-in

> - Control Access with `<SignedOut>`: /docs/components/control/signed-out

Reviewer: I agree with this sentiment, the rest looks great!! 

https://github.com/clerk/clerk-docs/pull/649#discussion_r1457945504

Try accessing your app now by visiting [`http://localhost:3000`](http://localhost:3000) to see what signed out users will see. Next you will add a button so you can sign in and see the content within the `<SignedIn />` component.

### Embed the `<UserButton />` and `<SignInButton />`

The [`<UserButton />`](/docs/components/user/user-button) allows users to manage their account information and log out, completing the full authentication circle. The [`<SignInButton />`(/docs/components/unstyled/sign-in-button)] is an unstyled component designed to wrap around your button. It can also act as a basic button on its own.

To add the `<UserButton />` and `<SignInButton />`, do the following:
- Add `import { UserButton, SignInButton } from "@clerk/nextjs";` to the top of your file. 
- Ddd `<SignInButton />` comoponent inside of the `<SignedOut /> components`

> - Add `<UserButton/>` inside of the `<SignedIn />` components.

Reviewer: I always like bullet points lol
